# WinoWhy

This is the github repo for ACL 2020 paper "[WinoWhy: A Deep Diagnosis of Essential Commonsense Knowledge for Answering Winograd Schema Challenge](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.05763)".

## Dependency

Python 3.6, Pytorch 1.1


## Introduction of WinoWhy
This repo include the original **Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC)** dataset and 4095 WinoWhy reasons (15 for each WSC question) that could justify the pronoun coreference choices in WSC. 

WinoWhy contains 3 sources of reasons: **(1) Human; (2) Human Reverse; (3) Generation Model**. Each WSC reason has 5 reasons from each source.

Here are the descriptions and examples of reasons from these sources. The examples are based on the WSC question: *"The city councilmen refused the demonstrators a permit because they feared violence. Does the 'they' refer to 'the city councilmen' or 'the demonstrators'?"*. The reasons are based on the question *"The 'they' refers to the city councilmen because..."*. The paired question of this WSC changes *"feared"* to *"advocated"*.

| Resource | Description | Example|
| :---: | :---: | :---:|
| Human | Reasons provided by human beings. | city councilmen are administrative so they are more likely to fear. |
| Human Reverse | Human reasons for the paired WSC question. | the demonstrators were the ones who needed a permit. |
| Generation Model | The reasons generated by GPT-2 with the same question. | they are under the command of Mayor James B. Gray. |


Collected reasons are then used to categorize what types of commonsense knowledge are needed to solve the WSC question. The selected knowledge types are as follows (notice that a question could require knowledge from multiple categories):

| Name (# of question) | Definition | Example|
| :---: | :---: | :---:|
| Property (32) | Knowledge about property of objects. | ice is cold. |
| Object (82) | Knowledge about objects. | cats have ears. |
| Eventuality (88) | Knowledge about eventualities. | 'wake up' happens before 'open eyes'. |
| Spatial (64) | Knowledge about spatial position. | object at the back can be blocked. |
| Quantity (20) | Knowledge about numbers. | 2 is smaller than 10. |
| Others (48) | All other knowledge. | NA |


## Data Format of WinoWhy
There are two data files in the repo: 

**winowhy.json**: the WSC dataset and corresponding WinoWhy questions.

**cat_ref.json**: the knowledge categories and indexes of corresponding WSC questions.

#### WinoWhy Dataset

    Datatset: a list of 273 WSC questions.

        WSC Question: a dictionary. The keys: values are:

            "text": a dictionary of the orginal WSC text. The keys: values are:

                "txt1": a string of text before the pronoun;

                "pron": a string of the target pronoun;

                "txt2": a string of text after the pronoun;

            "answers": a list of strings of candidate answer spans;

            "correctAnswer": A or B;

            "source": original wsc source;

            "reasons": a list of the WinoWhy reasons:

                WinoWhy Reason: a list of a reason info:

                    reason[0]: reason text;

                    reason[1]: reason source (human, gpt, reverse);

                    reason[2]: reason plausibility;

                    reason[3]: reason label (Valid, Invalid, Undecided)

#### Category Reference
    Dataset: a dictionary. The key: values are:

        "Property", "Object", "Eventuality", "Spatial", "Quantity", "Others": a list of the indexes of the WSC questions.

## Performance of unsupervised models on WinoWhy

We can first connect the question and the reason as a single sentence by adding a few words between them (e.g., WSC Question+" The 'they' refers to the city councilmen because "+ Reason). Then we can put the sentence into the models and take the returned probability as the prediction.

## Performance of supervised models on WinoWhy
Similarly, we can regard WinoWhy as a binary classification problem which requires the model to distinguish the valid/invalid reasons through supervised learning. You can run the code for supervised learning by `python supervised_winowhy.py`. A processed dataset removing the reasons with label *undecided* for classification is available in `./dataset/`.


## Citation

    @inproceedings{zhang2020WinoWhy,
      author    = {Hongming Zhang and Xinran Zhao and Yangqiu Song},
      title     = {WinoWhy: A Deep Diagnosis of Essential Commonsense Knowledge for Answering Winograd Schema Challenge},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) 2020},
      year      = {2020}
    }

## Others
If you have any other questions about this repo, you are welcome to open an issue or send me an [email](mailto:xzhaoar@connect.ust.hk), I will respond to that as soon as possible.
